{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red89\green89\blue89;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c34902\c34902\c34902;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Seattle Collisions\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs27 \cf2 Data Source\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Seattle Collisions dataset, in the form of a CSV file, was downloaded from here: \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://data-seattlecitygis.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/collisions\cf0 \ulnone  \
\
There are 2 columns with unknown data value at the start of the CSV file that were not listed in the download\'92s documentation, so I deleted them from the CSV file before starting the exploration in R.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs27 \cf2 Description\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs20 \cf0 A dataset  containing all collisions provided by SPD (Seattle Police Department) and recorded by SDOT (Seattle Department of Transportation - Traffic Records). The variables are as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs27 \cf2 Format\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs20 \cf0 A CSV file with 205,380 rows and 38 variables:\
\pard\tx2952\pardeftab720\li630\fi-630\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 OBJECTID \uc0\u8232 ESRI unique identifier\
SHAPE \uc0\u8232 ESRI geometry field\
INCKEY \uc0\u8232 A unique key for the incident\
COLDETKEY \uc0\u8232 Secondary key for the incident\
ADDRTYPE \uc0\u8232 Collision address type:\u8232 \'95 Alley\u8232 \'95 Block\u8232 \'95 Intersection\
INTKEY \uc0\u8232 Key that corresponds to the intersection associated with a collision \
LOCATION \uc0\u8232 Description of the general location of the collision\
EXCEPTRSNCODE \uc0\u8232 Administrative code\u8232 \
EXCEPTRSNDESC \uc0\u8232 Administrative description\u8232 \
SEVERITYCODE \uc0\u8232 A code that corresponds to the severity of the collision:\u8232 \'95 3\'97fatality\u8232 \'95 2b\'97serious injury\u8232 \'95 2\'97injury\u8232 \'95 1\'97prop damage\u8232 \'95 0\'97unknown\
SEVERITYDESC \uc0\u8232 A detailed description of the severity of the collision\
COLLISIONTYPE \uc0\u8232 Collision type\
PERSONCOUNT \uc0\u8232 The total number of people involved in the collision\
PEDCOUNT \uc0\u8232 The number of pedestrians involved in the collision. This is entered by the state.\
PEDCYLCOUNT \uc0\u8232 The number of bicycles involved in the collision. This is entered by the state.\
VEHCOUNT \uc0\u8232 The number of vehicles involved in the collision. This is entered by the state.\
INJURIES  \uc0\u8232 The number of total injuries in the collision. This is entered by the state.\
SERIOUSINJURIES \uc0\u8232 The number of serious injuries in the collision. This is entered by the state.\
FATALITIES \uc0\u8232 The number of fatalities in the collision. This is entered by the state.\
INCDATE \uc0\u8232 The date of the incident.\
INCDTTM \uc0\u8232 The date and time of the incident.\
JUNCTIONTYPE \uc0\u8232 Category of junction at which collision took place\
SDOT_COLCODE\uc0\u8232 A code given to the collision by SDOT.\
SDOT_COLDESC \uc0\u8232 A description of the collision corresponding to the collision code.\
INATTENTIONIND \uc0\u8232 Whether or not collision was due to inattention  (Y/N)\
UNDERINFL \uc0\u8232 Whether or not a driver involved was under the influence of drugs or alcohol. \
WEATHER \uc0\u8232 A description of the weather conditions during the time of the collision.\
\pard\tx2952\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ROADCOND \uc0\u8232 The condition of the road during the collision.\
LIGHTCOND \uc0\u8232 The light conditions during the collision.\
PEDROWNOTGRNT \uc0\u8232 Whether or not the pedestrian right of way was not granted. (Y/N)\
SDOTCOLNUM \uc0\u8232 A number given to the collision by SDOT.\
SPEEDING \uc0\u8232 Whether or not speeding was a factor in the collision. (Y/N)\
ST_COLCODE \uc0\u8232 A code provided by the state that describes the collision. For more information about these codes, please see the State Collision Code Dictionary.\
ST_COLDESC \uc0\u8232 A description that corresponds to the state\'92s coding designation.\
SEGLANEKEY \uc0\u8232 A key for the lane segment in which the collision occurred.\
CROSSWALKKEY \uc0\u8232 A key for the crosswalk at which the collision occurred.\
HITPARKEDCAR \uc0\u8232 Whether or not the collision involved hitting a parked car. (Y/N)\
}